Spark Streaming also has another fault tolerant system called Write-Ahead Logs.
This was introduced in Spark 1.2,
and Write-Ahead Logs enforces fault tolerance by saving all data
received by the receivers to log files located in certain checkpoint directory.
It can be enabled through enabling
Spark.Streaming receiver.Write-Ahead Log enabled property.
In Spark streaming, Driver updates the Write-Ahead Logs with unprocessed offset.
A micro batch job or our jobs are created then process the records.
The output of the micro batch is
persisted in some location like database or a file system.
Spark structures trimmings default behavior is reading stream as a micro batch.
In a micro batch, incoming records are grouped into
small Windows and processed in a periodic fashion.
Spark will also try to read the next micro batch as soon as possible when it's available.
Spark structured streaming still works in micro batches.
We say structure streaming works in micro batches because it
uses run batches method and stream execution class.
Run batches triggers data retrieval user-specified integral,
managed by processing time executer,
or only once managed by onetime executor,
and we'll take a look at that in the demo in the next concept.